An important part of coding is debugging. Figuring
out what is not working in your code. And there's
a really nice tool, that helps you do this: the
Web Developer Tools. If you have your sketch
open in your browser, simply do a right-click on
the website and click on the "inspect" button. If
you're using Safari, you might need to activate
the developer tools first. I've added a link in
the description below the video how to do this. By
default, the developer tools open as part of your
browser window, which makes it hard to actually
see the original content that you're working on.
If you click on the three dots in the upper
right, you can switch to the window-mode,
where you get a separate window for the developer
tools. The developer tools give you a lot of
different insights into how your website is
performing and how it works. From "elements",
which show you the HTML and CSS structure of your
websites, to "network", which shows you which
files are being loaded by your website, to the
"console". And the "console" is the most important
part for us inspecting our JavaScript. In the
"console" you will see any errors coming up,
to demonstrate this, i will quickly switch back to
the code and change the name of the "background"
command and just delete the D. So that it's
the wrong command name. And if i save this,
we can immediately see that the background is not
drawn anymore and if i switch to the developer
tools we now see an error here. The error is
marked as red and we can see that there is an
"unknown reference error" and "backgroun is not
defined", because the p5.js library in JavaScript
doesn't know the command "backgroun" without a D.
And we get some further insights, we see that the
error is coming from the sketch.js file from
line 10. If we switch back to our code and see
in line 10, we have written the "background"
command in a wrong way. If i add the D again,
the error message disappears. Sometimes you will
come up with errors that you might not know how
to solve. A very good way to solve a problem, is
to first google it. So copy the complete error
message and just paste it in google or another
search engine and see what's coming up. There's
a lot of different platforms on the web, where
people post the errors and other people reply to
those errors. And it's very likely, that the error
you came up with, already somebody else solved
this. So try to google or search for your error
and see if somebody else has a solution for this.
But we can use the console tool for much
more. For example if you have a really long
and complex code written, sometimes it's good
to figure out where your code stops working.
To do this, you can simply add comments to your
code that are output into the console. To do this,
there is a simple command called "console.log()".
And then inside the brackets we can now define
something that is output to the console.
For example we say here "draw complete".
And i save this and now i can see here that
this text, this string, that i sent to the
"console.log" command, is now being output in
the "console". So we know our draw function works
until the end. And if there would be an error
before it wouldn't output the "draw complete".
Because the draw is a loop that is running
over and over again we can see here the
the numbers in front are telling us that the same
string is output multiple times and for example
if we do the same in our setup function add a
"console.log()" here and say "setup complete".
This should only come up once, because setup
is only run once in the beginning and we can
see here "setup complete" is called once and
then "draw complete" is called multiple times.
You can also see a little
warning here. In this case
JavaScript or the HTML in the browser is looking
for a certain file that it couldn't find,
but it's just a warning so it's nothing
serious and you can ignore this for now.
you